Implementation of `STLSubdomainGenerator` (#32764)
idaholab/moose: framework/doc/content/source/meshgenerators/STLSubdomainGenerator.md

# STLSubdomainGenerator

> !syntax description /Mesh/STLSubdomainGenerator

Reviewer: ideally the domain definition would be with "surface meshes" or "CAD" or "Geometry" (englobing both CSG, CAD and meshes) not STL

we don't real want an OBJSubdomainGenerator or STEPSubdomainGenerator to come next

Reviewer: and this only supports STLs that are manifolds

Author: This seems like a bigger design decision we should talk about.

Reviewer: maybe the abstraction needs to be a "TriangulationManifold" instead of STL
it s still somewhat similar to a surface mesh though

then we can have a "read_from_STL" routine for now, and expand as needed for future formats
(for example build_from_mesh could be cool?)

Reviewer 2: Yeah - "STL" both overpromises (STL meshes aren't even guaranteed to be watertight, much less manifolds) and underpromises (there are other good ways to get a watertight Tri manifold).  I'm afraid I can't think of a much better name than "TriangulationManifold", which is flawed (very wordy, only obvious to people who've heard the topological definition of manifold) but which is probably good enough.  Maybe "TriangulatedSurface" would be clearer to most users?  Or "TriangulatedBoundary" might be good - I'd think they mean the same thing to most users but to me there's more connotation of "the surface can't be self-intersecting, and it has to be a manifold-without-boundary so it can itself be a complete boundary of a volume").

Reviewer 2: We could probably just shorten "Triangulation" or "Triangulated" to "Tri".  New suggestions: "TriSurfaceSubdomainGenerator" or "TriEnclosedSubdomainGenerator".  My "Boundary" suggestion was a bad one, since in MOOSE (and libMesh, and among analysts in general) we liberally use "boundary" to mean only subsets of a full domain boundary.

Reviewer: > TriangulatedSurface

This would be OK to me too as long as all the routines that only support manifold get either:
- a boolean "is_manifold" (either in the class definition OR in the routine's parameters) and a debug check on "is actually manifold". error on is_manifold = false works for me in those routines
- a "AsManifold" or some other indication in the name of the routine. Probably ugly

## Overview

`STLSubdomainGenerator` assigns a subdomain ID based on whether an element centroid lies inside a

> closed STL manifold. The STL surface must be watertight and manifold. Element centroids that lie on

Reviewer: do you mean manifold as an adjective here? Not sure it fits

Author: manifold can be a noun or adjective, this is grammatically correct.

Reviewer: as a noun it is used in this meaning.
as an adjective I've never seen it with its math meaning. if you have it's fine then

Author: If you're unconvinced, others certainly will follow. I made it a noun.

the STL surface within the configured tolerance are treated as inside.

> This generator reads an STL file directly for containment tagging only. It does not make STL a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This generator reads an STL file directly for assigning subdomains in another mesh. It does not make STL a
```

> general-purpose input format for [FileMeshGenerator](FileMeshGenerator.md).

Reviewer: what do you mean here

Author: This just makes it extra clear that the STL is not converted to a mesh, like what is done in FileMeshGenerator.

Reviewer: right but a mesh generator would never make an input for FileMeshGenerator?

Author: Made things more clear.

## Example

The example below creates a structured 3D mesh, translates a cube STL into the mesh domain, and
assigns subdomain `1` to the elements whose centroids lie inside the closed surface.

!listing test/tests/meshgenerators/stl_subdomain_generator/basic_inside.i block=Mesh

The same STL geometry can be rescaled with
[!param](/Mesh/STLSubdomainGenerator/scale), repositioned with
[!param](/Mesh/STLSubdomainGenerator/rotation), and shifted with
[!param](/Mesh/STLSubdomainGenerator/translation). The transform order is scale,
then rotation, then translation. Users may also limit reassignment to selected
existing blocks with

> [!param](/Mesh/STLSubdomainGenerator/restricted_subdomains).

Reviewer: these operations would not be necessary to duplicate if you made it about a surface mesh rather than STL

# STLSubdomainGenerator

!syntax description /Mesh/STLSubdomainGenerator

## Overview

`STLSubdomainGenerator` assigns a subdomain ID based on whether an element's vertex-average point
lies inside a closed STL manifold. The STL surface must be watertight and a manifold. Vertex-average
points that lie on the STL surface within the configured tolerance are treated as inside.

This generator reads an STL file directly for assigning subdomains in another mesh. It does not make STL a

> general-purpose input format, like those supported in [FileMeshGenerator](FileMeshGenerator.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
general-purpose mesh input format, as does the [FileMeshGenerator](FileMeshGenerator.md) for several other formats.
```
